---
layout: post
title: "Mother of the Year"
date: "2019-07-28T12:30:08-08:00"
tags:
  - balance
  - mother
---
## Insert coffee cup image
I'm thankful for the opportunity to break gender stereotypes as I proclaim success with my year off as a stay-at-home dad.

I'm actively generating revenue for my family again, and I love it. I took one year off from actively working for others. It changed our family's live's for the better, and it made me better at what I do.

Before I get to what I did, it's important to explain a little more WHY I did it. My family is first. Being a great father and husband is paramount, and I really try to live this. A couple years ago, my partner and I both worked full time. Many professionals know tight deadlines, essential overtime, incident management, and being on call is part only adds to demands on one's time. We also had a seven year old daughter, in second grade, that at that time. She is really bright, but we didn't have the time to put in with her and her teacher. Many days, she was with other people for 10+ hours. It seemed my wife and I were so exhausted, when we had 30 minutes, we hid from everyone and tried to relax. We uknowingly deprioritized our quality family time even more. The reason I quit work for a year was my family really needed a change. As you'll see, it's one of the best decisions we've made.

The more I looked around, the families I saw keeping their sanity have one parent stay at home. However, this seemed out of reach for our family in Portland. Even when I whittled all the joy and happiness from our budget, it still wasn't enough. Living in Portland is much more expensive than it was 20 years ago when I moved here.

Maybe I was looking at this wrong? If only there was someone smarter than me at home to discuss these issues...?

Around this time, my wife told me "Why do you assume that you'll keep working, and I'll quit?" My first reaction was, "Because I make more money." That's when I realized she was right (it's in writing, my love). With incident management and on-call responsibilities demanding more of my schedule (sometimes 60+ hours), much more time would be free if I left. We also know how to make a budget. The power of budgets is not to cut everything to the bone. The power is creating sustainable plan for the future. My experience as a manager, budget advisory, and real estate investor helped me use that same lense to examine our lives. If we can't live off one parent's income, can we find a way to make some passive income to make up the difference? How long can we budget for me to NOT work? How can we setup a long term, sustainable plan for one parent working? When we started asking these questions, we were on the right path. We did our best to make our family a one-parent-working family.

Part of what I did during that year was setup passive income to help offset the cost of one parent working. I did this through real estate investment. We also remodeled the kitchen and added new windows to the house. Each day, I would drop off, pick up, make breakfast, lunch, and dinner for my family. I washed all the laundry, dishes, and I went to the store. I paid all the bills, and I made sure that we're on track with our budget. I also helped my daughter with school lessons and teach her parallel lessons from homeschool books. Her routine includes the self-discipline to come home from school and do her homework before she runs around the neighborhood, looking for friends before dinner. She's in soccer, swims, plays with friends, and has plenty of other extra-cirriculuar activities. I went on every field trip, and I'm even the co-treasurer for her school's PTA. I'm heavily involved in my daughter's life, and its made a huge difference for our family. In addition, this helped alleviate my wife from these responsibilities, and allowed her to focus on working full time. She doesn't need to race home to pickup our daughter from after school care at 6PM, barely get dinner, homework, and ready for bed without much quality time. My family still drives me to be a good role model for them and be the best I can be. This year, we not only to keep our head above water, it feels like we're thriving.

Although this year has been fantastic, I'm ready to get back to work. I think I've setup all these things to pass off to my wife, and she's going to make it better. Her skills are different than mine, and I value her input. However, I miss working with engineers everyday. I miss efficient stand ups, git commits, writing code with other people, and being around other geeks who speak my language. My family is awesome, but we're never going to discuss terraform, ansible, kubernetes, or python. I can't make jokes about Commodore64's, GOTO from BASIC, or floppy disks. I'm not sure if I was burned out, but the spark I have again is real. I'm excited to learn, and I can't wait for what's next.

It's early, but my new team is fantastic. Everyone is intelligent. Their sense of balance and blameless retrospectives, and they balance well. They are eating an elephant one bite at a time, and they are making real progress. There is plenty of opportunity for furthering devops culture, and I can already see that we're making a difference.
